docs(world): add namespaces-access-control to the new docs (#1828)
latticexyz/mud: next-docs/pages/world/namespaces-access-control.mdx

# Namespaces and Access Control

> MUD access control is based on namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Access control in a `World` is based on namespaces.
```

> Every resource is part of a namespace (if there is no namespace specified that just mean that the resource is part of the root namespace).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every resource is part of a namespace (a blank namespace refers to the `root` namespace).
```

> Access to every resource is managed by the owner address of the namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Access to resources is managed by the owner of the namespace.
```

## Resource identifiers

> A `ResourceId` is a 32-byte value that uniquely identifies a resource in a MUD `World`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `ResourceId` is a 32-byte value that uniquely identifies a resource in a `World`.
```

It is two bytes of resource type followed by 14 bytes of namespace and then 16 bytes of the name of the actual resource.

Currently, MUD supports these resource types:

- [Table (`tb`)](https://github.com/latticexyz/mud/blob/main/packages/store/src/storeResourceTypes.sol#L11).

>   An onchain table whose information that is available both onchain (through calls to `view` functions) and offchain (either through calls to `view` functions, events, or an [indexer](/services/indexer)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  An onchain table whose information is available both onchain (through calls to `view` functions) and offchain (either through calls to `view` functions, events, or an [indexer](/services/indexer)).
```

- [Offchain table (`ot`)](https://github.com/latticexyz/mud/blob/main/packages/store/src/storeResourceTypes.sol#L14).
  An offchain table whose information is only available offchain (either through events, or through an [indexer](/services/indexer)).
- [Namespace (`ns`)](https://github.com/latticexyz/mud/blob/main/packages/world/src/worldResourceTypes.sol#L15).
  A namespace is a container for tables, offchain tables, and systems, as explained here.
- [System (`sy`)](https://github.com/latticexyz/mud/blob/main/packages/world/src/worldResourceTypes.sol#L25).

>   A system contains functions that interact with table data onchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  A [system](./systems) contains logic that interact with table data onchain.
```

- [Module (`md`)](https://github.com/latticexyz/mud/blob/main/packages/world/src/worldResourceTypes.sol#L21).

>   A module is a script that can install tables, systems, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  A module is a deployed script that can install tables, systems, etc.
```

Access control can be attached to any resource.

## Access control levels

There are three access levels in MUD.

### "No" access

This is the level that most users of a MUD application have for all resources.
Users on this level are allowed to do the following:

> - Read information (table content).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Read data from tables.
```

>   _There are no secrets on the blockchain_, transactions and events are public information, so this information has to be available.

Reviewer: > There are no secrets on the blockchain

This point is arguable (zk, hash commitments, etc), would remove it here

```suggestion
```

Author: The secret information isn't *on the blockchain*. But I'll make it clearer.

> - Call functions on any `System` that is publicly accessible to make transactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Call functions on [public `System`s](./systems).
```

### Access

This level of access is often required for software that is part of the application.
Access can be granted either on a namespace basis (access to the namespace gives access to all the resources inside it) or on an individual resource.

Entities with this level of access can do anything that "no" access allows, and also:

- Write directly to tables.

>   This is as opposed to users with no access, who can only modify table information by going through a `System` (by default, a `System` has access to its own namespace, which of course includes all of the namespace's tables).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This is as opposed to users with no access, who can only modify table information by going through a public `System` (by default, a `System` has access to its own namespace, which includes all of the namespace's tables).
```

> - Call a `System` that is _not_ publicly accessible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Call functions on [private `System`s](./systems).
```

- Withdraw from the ETH balance of the namespace.

>   To avoid giving this permission, give an address access to every resource in the namespace, rather than to the namespace itself.

Reviewer: Can we rephrase this slightly to make it clear in the first sentence that this is only true for access to a `namespace` resource?

### Ownership

> Namespaces are the only resource type that has an owner, and they can only have a single address as the owner (if you need to allow multiple people to act as owner, you can configure a 1/n multi-sig as the owner, and then any of them can do the owner only actions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Namespace` is the only resource type that has an owner.
The owner is a single account (but by using multi-sig accounts ownership can be shared).
```

The owner is an administrative account, a superuser.
When you change ownership, the new owner gets access to the namespace, and the old owner loses it.
Therefore, owners can do anything an address with access can.
Additionally, owners can also:

- Grant and revoke access within the namespace (either to the namespace itself or to resources inside it).
- Transfer namespace ownership.
- Register a [namespace delegation control](/world/account-delegation).
- Register new [tables](/store/tables).
- Register [store hooks](/store/store-hooks) for tables in the namespace.
- Register new [systems](/world/systems).
- Upgrade existing systems.
- Register [system hooks](/world/system-hooks) for systems in the namespace.
- Register [function selectors](/world/function-selectors) for systems in the namespace.

> Owners can modify which contract a `World` uses for each `System`, so a namespace with an owner is not truly decentralized, unless the owner is some kind of distributed governance mechanism.
> When the application is ready to be truly decentralized, the owner can revoke previously granted access as needed and then transfer ownership to `address(0)`.
> Once this is done no new access can be granted, and ownership cannot be transferred again.

Reviewer: "True decentralization" is nuanced and can be argued about, I'd simplify this paragraph to:

```suggestion
Note: once ownership of a namespace is burned (i.e. transferred to `address(0)`), no new access can be granted or revoked and ownership can't be transferred again.
```
